#New project configuration

##Gulp config
**[Gulp](http://gulpjs.com/)** needs a bit of configuration to work properly. The provided settings should be enough to start but you will surely need to enhance them. The dedicated file for this is **[gulpfile.js](gulpfile.js)**.

###Basic settings will assume:

* The "**htdocs**" directory is the `public` directory.
* Your **working dir** is `app`, anything changed in this directory will make Gulp do his magic.
* **Javascripts** will be joined in two files:
	* `vendor.js` for vendor scripts and bower components,
	* `main.js`for all other scripts.
* The **order** of the compilation of script files is determined in the section "Javascripts" of **[gulpfile.js](gulpfile.js)**. If you need to concatenate some scripts in a specific order, enrich this section.
	1. `base.js`,
	2. `helpers.js`,
	3. `functions.js`,
	4. `general.js`,
	5. any other script.
* **Stylesheets** will be compiled into one single file: `styles.css`
	* The result will be compressed by *ruby*.
* The **order** of the compilation of style files is determined by the order of the @imports in the **/app/scss/styles.scss**.

Note: When going live and using `gulp prod`, the files generated are compressed and renamed such as: **vendor.min.js**, **main.min.js** and **styles.min.css**. To have your pages call the minified files, go into the `app/assets/config.php` file and set `$devvars['dev'] to `false` => and the calls in the pages will change accordingly.

Feel free to change all of this but beware of drawbacks...

###More Gulp config
All the help you will need can be found [here](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md "Gulp docs").

##PHP Config
Many aspects of the configuration of the project can be found in `/app/assets/config.php`.  
The purpose of this file is to centralize all the data that can be inserted anywhere in the project like the **Google Analytics** parameters, the javascripts and the stylesheets to include on the pages, the development state (dev or prod), etc.

All the variables set in this file are therefore used further into different includes, where they shall apply correctly: the javascripts are plugged into the footer include, and so on.

You will find plenty of help in the comments of the file.  
You can add as many vars as you may need into this file as it is included on every page.

##Styles config
The styles are base over **[inuitcss 6.0.0-beta.3](https://github.com/inuitcss/inuitcss)**. As such, inuitcss is included into the process but it can be partially overriden.  
The styles remote controller is `/app/scss/styles.scss`. It hosts all the inclusions that will come into the final `styles.css`, be careful, order is important.

1. `functionals/_overrides.scss`: contains the *inuit parameters* you want to override and their new values. This is also the place to enable the *inuit modules*.  
The best way to do it is to *insert at the very right place* the block of code coming from `[path-to]/inuit.css/_defaults.scss` that you want to override and put in the value that suits you.
2. `../../bower-components/inuit.../..`: Do I have to explain?  
  
**From this point, nothing to do with inuitcss**.  
3. `functionals/_vars.scss`: this file is here to store all the variables you will use in your styles: colors, measures, etc. Please favor maps to add sense to your vars.  
4. `functionals/_functions.scss`: this files stores some useful functions to manipulate further Sass code.  
5. `functionals/_mixins.scss`: Some useful mixins to enlarge inuit's scope.  
6. `functionals/_helpers.scss`: Some useful generic classes, silent or not and some rewriting of inuit classes.  
7. `functionals/_dev.scss`: Some useful classes for development only, **not to be pushed on production site!!!**  
8. `sprites.scss`: This file is automatically generated and updated by **Gulp** throught its Sprite generator.  
9. Then come the fonts inclusions.

Finally come the inclusion of all the files containing the styles of pieces of pages such as:

* Basics, structure and general styling,
* Titles, header, footer and navigation,
* Forms, search, pagination, social networks or plug-ins.

You can create as many files as you want and include them here to be compiled with all the rest of the stuff, just pay attention to the order.  
Any file dedicated to styling a certain page or specific block can be put at the end of this list.
